The latest source and some binaries can be found at:

  http://www.geocities.com/g_w_reynolds/sr5sieve/

For discussion check the Sierpinski/Riesel Base 5 forum at

  http://www.mersenneforum.org/

To report bugs, email me (Geoff): g_w_reynolds at yahoo.co.nz.


SR5SIEVE
========

Sr5sieve is a version of srsieve specialised for use with the Sierpinski /
Riesel Base 5 projects. It expects a project data file 'sr5data.txt' and
work file 'sr5work.txt' to be in the current directory when started.

Each line of sr5work.txt should consist of the start and end of a sieving
range, in billions, seperated by a comma, dash, or space. For example, the
following two lines in sr5work.txt will sieve from 2,000,000,000,000 to
2,001,000,000,000 and then from 2001,000,000,000 to 2002,000,000,000:

2000,2001
2001-2002

Invoking sr5sieve without command line arguments will cause it to sieve each
range in sr5work.txt in order, writing factors to the file factorsNNN.txt,
where NNN is the start of the current range, and deleting the corresponding
line in sr5work.txt when a range is finished.

New lines can be added to the end of sr5work.txt without stopping sr5sieve.

If sr5sieve is interrupted and restarted, it will resume sieving the current
range where it left off.

If a new version of sr5data.txt is downloaded, it is necessary to stop and
restart sr5sieve before the new data file will take effect.

To save downloading a new copy of sr5data.txt each time a new prime is
found, the command 'sr5sieve -d <K>' will delete the candidate sequence
K*5^n+/-1 from the existing sr5data.txt.

To run multiple sr5sieve processes from the same directory, create work
files sr5work-X.txt, sr5work-Y.txt, etc. and start each process as
`sr5sieve -u X', sr5sieve -u Y', etc. All processes will use the same
sr5data.txt and sr5cache.bin input files, but will write output files with
-X, -Y, etc. appended to the file name base.

To generate a file <K>.txt for prp testing a reserved candidate K*5^n+/-1
over the range N0 <= n < N1, run:
 'sr5sieve -g <K> <N0> <N1>' for NewPGen format (for testing with LLR/PRP)
 'sr5sieve -a <K> <N0> <N1>' for ABC format (for testing with Phrot).

To generate a Prime95 worktodo.ini file for P-1 factoring the candidate
K*5^n+/-1 over the range N0 <= n < N1, first run `sr5sieve -g <K> <N0> <N1>'
as above to generate <K>.txt, then run `srfile -p 1 <K>.txt > worktodo.ini'.

To speed up the initialisation step, run `sr5sieve -c' once to create a
cache file. Running sr5sieve thereafter (without the -c switch) will load
some initialisation data from the cache instead of computing it from scratch.

If no command line arguments are given but `sr5sieve-command-line.txt'
exists in the current directory, then the command line will be as if the
first line of this file had been used to invoke sr5sieve. This may be useful
on some GUI machines where the command shell and batch files have been
disabled for security reasons.
